>> Bianca Gandolfo: This
is an accumulator,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: The accumulator
technique.
And what we do is, as we build a solution,
we keep passing it.
So for example, let's do,
what do you think I'm about to do?
Can anyone guess what's gonna happen next?
I'm gonna play the closure,
or the closure game,
I calling it weird things,
the call set game.
So, my gosh, this is a lot of
stuff going on, but let's call it.
We're gonna call joinElements,
let's put it at the top.
So our array looks like this, and
then our join string is this letter e.
So what this function is doing is,
it's going to join this
array with the string here.
So this array is going to be joined, so
array.join is a native array method.
So you can join a list with a comma, for
example, that's a common use case for
the .join.
So if you have a series of whatever,
fruit would be a common thing,
you can do array.join.
And then it'll say apples,
bananas, oranges, like that.
However, it's a thing that's nice,
but it's a bit annoying,
because in English we wanna put the and
in there.
So you say apples, bananas, and oranges.
And so
you may wanna write your own pretty join,
where it keeps track of when
you're the second to last one, and
will add an and in there as appropriate,
with or without the Oxford comma.
The programmer's choice, I guess it's
probably the product person's choice or
whoever's in charge of that, who knows.
So we're doing that,
except we're doing it recursively, and
we're using a technique called
the accumulator technique.
And let's take a peek at how that works.
So we have our two arguments that are
passed in, we're defining this function.
So we're not pushing this function on
to the call stack because we have not
called it yet.
However, we're gonna call it, down here,
we're initializing it
with a couple values.
So we're gonna call this recurse function.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We're gonna push that,
so our index is gonna be 0,
and then the resultSoFar
is an empty string.
So the first thing we wanna
do is add the resultSoFar,
which is empty string, we wanna give
it the very first value, which is s.
So we're calling,
we're looking up into the parent scope,
getting array.index, index is 0.
So we're looking at s, everyone
following where we're getting s from?
So now resultSoFar is s,
cuz empty string plus s is s.
Math, just kidding, it's not math.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
if the index is at the end of the array,
this is our base case,
did we get to the end, we're gonna return.
So we're not there yet., index is 0, so
we're going to go into our recursive case.
So we're going to return index + 1, key,
we need to get closer to our base case.
Which is when we have gone through
the entire array, we're looping.
We're just looping through this array, and
at every index, we're giving it a string.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool,
so now we're going to, so
this index, so we're gonna call this.
Let's just push it, so we're gonna be
calling it with index 0 + 1, which is 1.
The resultSoFar, which is our s, and
then our join string, remember, is the e.
Again, you're reaching up, and
getting it from our parent scope.
Okay, this is where we left off,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: This is where
we left off before, wait, no it's not, I'm
lying to you, this is where we left off.
Okay, so now we're hopping in,
we have these things to worry about,
sorry, we're concatenating this.
So actually, what we're passing is se, you
see where the accumulation is happening?
We're accumulating by
adding things together, and
then we're passing it down
into our recursion each time.
So now our index is gonna be 1,
our resultSoFar is se.
Okay, so what is index at i,
we're gonna have that one, so.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
this is a +=, right, so
we're going to be
building this string out.
So we started with resultSoFar,
which we passed in.
And the next item in the array,
which is cr, so now we get secr, cool?
Is index at the end of the array,
and this -1, you guys are aware,
is cuz arrays are zero-indexed,
that's why we have to do the -1.
It is not, so
we're gonna go into this other case
where we're going to call our recursion.
What are the variables that we're
calling with, index + 1 is gonna be 2,
and resultSoFar + joinString.
So here's our resultSoFar,
and we're gonna reach up and
get our joinString, which was e.
And then pop this on again, oops,
that's not we're popping on.
We're not even popping,
sorry, we're pushing,
we're pushing this onto the stack.
Cuz our index in this case is 2, then we
have the string that's being constructed.
So again,
we're going to take our resultSoFar,
which is this, and
then we're going to add the next one,
uh-oh, a word is appearing, which is t.
Are we at the end of our array,
index is 2,
array.length- 1 is 1, 2, 3, 4, there's 4.
There, actually, it's 1, 2, 3, 4, yeah,
it's 4, so we're not there.
And we're gonna keep going, and
as we loop through this array,
we are going to be
concatenating our string.
And this is the accumulator method that,
each time, after each loop,
not only are we incrementing our index,
but we're saving some result.
And that result is getting
passed down into our recursion.
So this is some work that's getting done,
where we are doing some operation, and
we're also getting closer to
our base case, cool, mm-hm?
>> Student: The string at index 3,
is that t space cod, rather than just t?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, thank you.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What could it say,
I don't know, it's so mysterious.
Any questions about this,
I'm not gonna keep going with it,
cuz you guys, I think,
kinda get the picture.
The one thing to note before we move
on is, eventually, when we reach this,
we're gonna return the resultSoFar.
Which, as you see,
is gonna be this string that we built up,
we accumulated through
our recursive calls.
And so that will return that, and
since we're returning this recursion,
this will be returned.
And it will keep popping and popping and
popping until we will finally return here.
And that's gonna return,
where we initially called it.